# Module Ten Introduction

For this module, we will be talking about the politics and culture of the roughly 20 year period after World War II. In my conventional classes, I subtitle my Power Point outline for this topic, "The Search for Security." Keep that theme in mind as you go through this module. After living through the Great Depression and World War II, many Americans, more than anything, wanted some safety and stability in their lives. 

My grandparents lived through the Depression and the war, and my parents were born shortly before the US entered World War 2. In essay #97 of _Accessible American History,_  I talk about how these traumatic experiences may have affected me and my family down to the present day.

By the time you finish this module, you should be able to answer the following questions:

1. Define the term "Cold War." Why did the United States commit itself to "fighting" this Cold War? (What was so bad about the country and way of life that the United States was fighting against?)
2. Be familiar with some of the major events/developments of the Cold War during this period: Korean War, formation of NATO, Marshall Plan, CIA covert operations, Cuban Missile Crisis.
3. What basic issue divided the two political parties? In general, what type of policies were implemented during this period?
4. Why were so many people able to move to the suburbs during this time? Describe the way of life that developed in the suburbs.
5. What signs of rebellion and unrest began to appear in the 1950s?

## Textbook Reading for this Module

 Chapters 52 and 53 


